.. include:: ../../README.rst

|newpage|

Overview
--------

This demo application shows a simple Delay and Sum (DAS) beam-former. It shows the setup of the I2S for audio 
output via the DAC and very simple processing of multi-channel audio frames to produce a single channel
output based on a simple single steering direction.

The simple lores delay and sum example
--------------------------------------

The example in this note uses the microphone array library and shows a simple program
that interfaces to to the PDM microphones, decimates the PDM and finally packs it into frames.

To start using the microphone array library library, you need to add ``lib_mic_array`` to
your ``Makefile``::

        USED_MODULES = ... lib_mic_array ...

You can then access the microphone array library functions in your source code via
the ``mic_array.h`` header file:

.. literalinclude:: app_lores_DAS_fixed.xc
   :start-on: include "mic_array.h"
   :end-before: include "mic_array_board_support.h"

Demo Hardware Setup
-------------------

	#. Connect the xTAG-2 or xTAG-3 to Microphone Array Ref Design v1.
	#. Connect the xTAG-2 or xTAG-3 USB connector to the USB connector on your development PC using a USB cable. 
	#. Connect the Microphone Array Ref Design v1 to your development PC using another USB cable. 
	#. Connect the Microphone Array Ref Design v1 to your headphones.

Launching the demo application
------------------------------

Once the application source code is imported into the tools you can then build the project
which will generate the binary file required to run the demo application.

Once the application has been built you need to download the application binary
code onto the Microphone Array Ref Design v1. Here you use the tools to load the application 
over JTAG onto the xCORE multicore microcontroller.

Then click **Run**.

Alternatively, from the command line build the application, by doing a call to ``xmake``, then 
run using ``xrun --xscope app_lores_DAS_fixed.xe``.  The output of the microphones should
be heard through your headphones.

Buttons ``A`` and ``D`` rotate the direction of the beam which is indicated by the LEDs.
Buttons ``B`` and ``C`` decrease and increase the gain on the output signal respectively.

Task setup
----------

The PDM microphones interface task and decimators have to be connected together
and to the application (``lores_DAS_fixed()``). There needs to be one ``decimate_to_pcm_4ch()`` task per
four channels that need processing. The PDM interface task, ``pdm_rx()`` can process 
eight channels so only one is needed per eight channels. The PDM interface must be connected 
to each of the decimators via a streaming channel. Finally, the decimators have to be 
connected to the application. This gives the following task diagram:

.. literalinclude:: app_lores_DAS_fixed.xc
   :start-on: streaming chan c_4x_pdm_mic[2];
   :end-on: lores_DAS_fixed

Note that the decimators have to be on the same tile as the application due to shared frame memory.	

Frame memory
------------

For each decimator a block of memory must be allocated for storing FIR data. The size of the data 
block must be:

  Number of channels for that decimator * THIRD_STAGE_COEFS_PER_STAGE * Decimation factor * sizeof(int)

bytes. The data must also be double word aligned. For example:

.. literalinclude:: app_lores_DAS_fixed.xc
   :start-on: int data_0
   :end-on: int data_1

Also the frame memory must also be a double word aligned array of length of at least 2.   
Note that on the xCORE-200 all global arrays are guaranteed to be double-word aligned.

Configuration
-------------

Configuration for the example is achieved through:

.. literalinclude:: app_lores_DAS_fixed.xc
   :start-on: decimator_config_common
   :end-on: decimator_configure

All configuration options are enumerated in the Microphone array library. Once configured 
then the decimators require initialization via:

.. literalinclude:: app_lores_DAS_fixed.xc
   :start-on: decimator_init_audio_frame
   :end-before: while(1)

The the decimators will start presenting samples in the form of frames that can be accessed with:

.. literalinclude:: app_lores_DAS_fixed.xc
   :start-on: decimator_get_next
   :end-before: copy the current sample

The return value of the above is a pointer to the frame that the application (``lores_DAS_fixed()``) is allowed 
to access. The ``current`` structure contains the frame data in the ``data`` member. ``data`` is a 2D array
with the first index denoting the channel number and the second index denoting the frame index. The frame
index used 0 for the oldest samples and 2 to the power of ``dcc.frame_size_log2`` minus one as the newest
samples.

|newpage|

References
----------

.. nopoints::

  * XMOS Tools User Guide

    http://www.xmos.com/published/xtimecomposer-user-guide

  * XMOS xCORE Programming Guide

    http://www.xmos.com/published/xmos-programming-guide

  * XMOS Microphone Array Library

    http://www.xmos.com/support/libraries/lib_mic_array

  * AN00162 - Using the I2S library

|newpage|


Full source code listing
------------------------

Source code for app_lores_DAS_fixed.xc
..........................................

.. literalinclude:: app_lores_DAS_fixed.xc
  :largelisting:

|newpage|
